# Credit-Card-Attrition-Rate-Analysis-and-Forecast (Fall 2020)

## 1. Introduction ##
Credit card company drives its revenue and profits from three factors: interest, annual fees charge to cardholders, and transaction fees paid by merchant businesses. (Walletbuddy, 2017) To maximize its revenue and profits, credit card company must focus on increasing number of its cardholders (customers) and merchant businesses. In the modern online payment market, fierce competition in the battle for market share has driven plastic issuers to keep churning out the zero-rate or low-rate balance-transfer offers they've come to rely on. (Weber, 2004) Gaining and retaining customers as cardholders is essential element to achieve higher profit. However, this project only focuses on customer retainment by exploring factors that affect churn rate because generating profits from incoming customers takes longer than existing customers. For example, first year credit cardholder is usually receiving promotions such as low interest rate, zero annual fee and extra mileage for travel. Our team found a credit card attrition data from Kaggle. Since such data is usually confidential, the credit card churn data is only available from open data source. We try to perform exploratory data analysis to derive insights and to find important factors for churn rate. Additionally, we compare various prediction algorithms to see which model fits best for our subject.

## 2. Problem Description ##
The goal is to build models with various algorithms to predict whether a customer will churn or not. Also, we will discover important factors of churn to introduce marketing strategy to retain existing cardholders.
